This package was debianized by Stuart Layton <slayton@mit.edu> on
Wed, 13 Aug 2008 09:32:55 -0400.

It was downloaded from http://www.codesourcery.com/vsiplplusplus/1.4/download.html

Upstream Author(s): 

	Copyright (c) 2005 CodeSourcery, LLC

Copyright: 


	Copyright 2009 Stuart Layton <slayton@mit.edu>

License:


	The Debian packaging is (C) 2008, Stuart Layton <slayton@mit.edu> and
	is licensed under the GPL, see `/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL'.

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Sourcery VSIPL++ is available under three separate licenses:

1) Commercial Optimized Implementation

  The entire library is available under the terms of a commercial license,
  described in the file LICENSE.Commercial.  Please contact CodeSourcery
  (1-888-776-0262 or sales@codesourcery.com) for details on obtaining
  rights to use the library under this license.

2) GPL Optimized Implementation

  The entire library is available under the terms of the GNU General Public
  License, contained in the file LICENSE.GPL.

3) BSD Reference Implementation

  The core parts of the library (listed below) are available under the BSD
  license, contained in the file LICENSE.BSD.

  When the BSD licensed files are configured with "--enable-ref-impl", the
  result is the VSIPL++ reference implementation.

  The core library parts available under the BSD license are:

    - autogen.sh
    - configure
    - configure.ac
    - GNUmakefile.in
    - install.sh
    - vsipl++-pc.in
    - src/vsip/*        All files in the src/vsip directory
    - src/vsip/core/    All files in the src/vsip/core hierarchy
    - tests/ref-impl/*  All files in the tests/ref-impl directory

  All remaining files are only available under a commercial license from
  CodeSourcery or under the GPL.

  For example, and without limitation, the following files are not available
  under the BSD license and cannot be used with the library when configured
  as the reference implementation:

   - synopsys.py.in
    - apps              All files in the apps hierarchy.
    - benchmarks        All files in the benchmarks hierarchy.
    - scripts           All files in the scripts hierarchy.
    - scripting         All files in the scripting hierarchy.
    - src/vsip/opt      All files in the src/vsip/opt hierarchy.
    - src/vsip_csl      All files in the src/vsip_csl hierarchy.

 --- BSD License ---

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the CodeSourcery nor the names of its
      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
      from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

   --- Commercial License

Sourcery VSIPL++ License Agreement

1. Parties.  The parties to this Agreement are you, the licensee
("You" or "Licensee") and CodeSourcery.  If You are not acting on
behalf of Yourself as an individual, then "You" means Your company or
Organization.

2. Definitions.

2.1. "Authorized Users."  The developers for whom license fees are
fully paid by Licensee and that are authorized to use the Software.
The number of Authorized Users is provided on the Confidential Price
Quotation.  This number may be increased by Licensee from time-to-time
by purchasing additional licenses as provided below.

2.2. "Composite Product(s)."  Software and/or hardware
products produced by Licensee for distribution hereunder that result
from the integration and merger of Licensee products with Software
licensed and provided by CodeSourcery hereunder.

2.3. "Effective Date."  The date on which Licensee executes this
Agreement or the date on which CodeSourcery gives Licensee access to
CodeSourcery's electronic support system, whichever is later.

2.4. "Proprietary Rights."  All rights in and to copyrights, rights to
register copyrights, trade secrets, inventions, patents, patent
rights, trademarks, trademark rights, confidential and proprietary
information protected under contract or otherwise under law, and other
similar rights or interests in intellectual or industrial property.

2.5. "Software."  Libraries, in source code and binary form, and
documentation referred to as Sourcery VSIPL++(tm) (the "Software"),
including any Updates thereto.

2.6. "Supported Platforms."  The set of host and target platforms for
which CodeSourcery will provide support under this Agreement as set
forth on the Confidential Price Quotation.

3. License to Software for Internal Use.  Subject to the terms and
conditions hereof, and only for the term hereof, CodeSourcery hereby
grants to Licensee, and Licensee hereby accepts, a limited,
non-exclusive license under the Proprietary Rights of CodeSourcery to
install and use the Software by the Authorized Users for internal use.

4. Integration and Merger License.  Subject to the terms and
conditions hereof, and only for the term hereof, CodeSourcery hereby
grants to Licensee the right and license to create derivative works
based on the Software to create Composite Product(s), using the
Software to be provided by CodeSourcery, provided that a Composite
Product may not be a signal- or image-processing toolkit or library
and must provide substantially different functionality than the
Software.

5. Distribution License.  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof
and only for the term hereof, CodeSourcery hereby grants to Licensee
the right and license to use, reproduce, publicly display, publish,
and distribute the Composite Product(s) in object code form only,
throughout Licensee's normal distribution channels.

6. Subscription Term.  This Agreement shall have a term of one (1)
year.  The initial subscription term of this Agreement shall commence
as of the Effective Date hereof and shall continue for a period of one
(1) year.  The initial subscription term shall automatically renew for
successive one (1) year terms unless either party notifies the other
in writing not less than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of
the current term of its intention not to renew.

7. Updates.  During the term of this Agreement, Licensee may download,
free of charge, any new version(s), update(s), or upgrade(s)
("Updates") to the Software that CodeSourcery makes available through
CodeSourcery's electronic support system at such times as may be
determined by CodeSourcery in its sole discretion.

8. License And Technical Support Fees.  License fees and technical
support fees are combined under this Agreement and are payable
annually, in advance, within thirty (30) days of the Effective Date.
The fee for the initial subscription term is provided on the
Confidential Price Quotation, and the renewal fees shall increase by
3% annually.  Renewal fees are due and payable on each anniversary of
the Effective Date.  All fees are non-refundable and are exclusive of
sales or use taxes and any levy imposed on the transportation or use
of the Software.  Licensee shall pay all such charges either as levied
by taxing authorities or as invoiced by CodeSourcery.

9. Purchase of Additional Licenses.  If Licensee purchases license
rights for additional Authorized Users, such additional licenses shall
be governed by the terms and conditions hereof.  Except as may be
expressly provided on the Confidential Price Quotation, pricing for
additional licenses shall be in accordance with CodeSourcery's
then-current price list, which may be updated by CodeSourcery from
time to time, pro- rated as appropriate for the remainder of the
current subscription term.  Licensee agrees that, absent
CodeSourcery's express written acceptance thereof, the terms and
conditions contained in any purchase order or other document issued by
Licensee to CodeSourcery for the purchase of additional licenses,
shall not be binding on CodeSourcery to the extent that such terms and
conditions are additional to or inconsistent with those contained in
this Agreement.
 
10. Technical Support.

10.1. Scope of Support.  CodeSourcery shall assist Licensee in
installing and using the Software in binary form.  CodeSourcery shall
correct defects in the Software reported by Customer, subject to the
limitations set forth below.  CodeSourcery shall impose no limit on
the number of support requests made by Licensee.

10.2. Electronic Support System.  Licensee shall make all support
requests via CodeSourcery's electronic support system, and
CodeSourcery shall respond via the same electronic support system.
Licensee shall appoint up to two Technical Contacts, who will be
provided access to CodeSourcery's electronic support system.  Licensee
may replace either or both of the Technical Contacts from time to time
by written notification to CodeSourcery.  CodeSourcery will not accept
support requests by telephone or other means.

10.3. Response Time.  CodeSourcery's electronic support system will
provide Licensee with an immediate acknowledgement of the support
request (including a unique tracking number) by electronic mail.
CodeSourcery shall respond to all support requests within one business
day, except in extraordinary circumstances.  CodeSourcery shall
attempt to resolve all support requests within three business days.

10.4. No Guarantee of Resolution.  CodeSourcery does not guarantee
that it will be able to resolve all support requests.  Without
limitation, CodeSourcery may, in its sole discretion, determine that a
defect in the Software is too difficult to correct, or than any
correction would likely risk the introduction of additional defects,
or that the defect is not likely to be encountered often enough to be
worthy of correction, or that the defect is insufficiently severe to
be worthy of correction.

10.5. Support for Previous Versions.  After the release of an Update
for a Supported Platform, CodeSourcery shall provide support for
previous version(s) of the Software for a period of six (6) months.
CodeSourcery will have no obligation to provide support after this
period.

11. Termination.

11.1. Grounds for Termination.  CodeSourcery may terminate this
Agreement upon thirty (30) days written notice of a material breach of
this Agreement if such breach is not cured; provided that the
distribution of the Software in source code form will be deemed a
material breach that cannot be cured.

11.2. Effects of Expiration or Termination.  Upon the expiration or
termination hereof, Licensee shall cease distributing Composite
Product(s) incorporating the Software.  Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained herein, sublicenses for all Composite
Product(s) in any form, including any derivative works based on
Software, granted by Licensee prior to the expiration date or the
effective date of termination of this Agreement shall remain in full
force and effect following such dates.

11.3. Continuing Obligations.  The following obligations shall survive
the expiration or termination hereof: (i) any and all warranty
disclaimers or limitations of liability herein, (ii) any covenant
granted herein for the purpose of determining ownership of, or
protecting, the Proprietary Rights, or any remedy for breach thereof,
and (iii) the payment of taxes, duties, or any fees to CodeSourcery
hereunder.

12. Confidentiality of Licensed Software.  Licensee acknowledges
CodeSourcery's claim that the Software embodies valuable trade secrets
consisting of algorithms, logic, design, and coding methodology
proprietary to CodeSourcery.  Licensee shall safeguard the
confidentiality of the Software, using the same standard of care which
Licensee uses for its similar confidential materials, but in no event
less than reasonable care.  Licensee shall not: (i) distribute,
transfer, loan, rent, or provide access to the Software, except as
provided herein; or (ii) remove or add any Proprietary Rights notice
associated with the Software without the express written permission of
CodeSourcery.

13. Assignment and Transfers.  Licensee may not transfer any rights
under this Agreement without the prior written consent of
CodeSourcery, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.  A
condition to any transfer or assignment shall be that the recipient
agrees to the terms of this Agreement.  Any attempted transfer or
assignment in violation of this provision shall be null and void.

14. Ownership.  CodeSourcery owns the Software and all Proprietary
Rights embodied therein, including copyrights and valuable trade
secrets embodied in its design and coding methodology.  The Software
is protected by United States copyright laws and international treaty
provisions.  CodeSourcery also owns all rights, title and interest in
and with respect to its trade names, domain names, trade dress, logos,
trademarks, service marks, and other similar rights or interests in
intellectual property.  This Agreement provides Licensee only a
limited use license, and no ownership of any intellectual property.

15. Warranty Disclaimer; Limitation of Liability.  CODESOURCERY
PROVIDES THE SOFTWARE "AS-IS".  CODESOURCERY DOES NOT MAKE ANY
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.  CODESOURCERY SPECIFICALLY
DISCLAIMS THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, NON- INFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, SYSTEM INTEGRATION,
AND DATA ACCURACY.  THERE IS NO WARRANTY OR GUARANTEE THAT THE
OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, ERROR-FREE, OR
VIRUS-FREE, OR THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL MEET ANY PARTICULAR CRITERIA OF
PERFORMANCE, QUALITY, ACCURACY, PURPOSE, OR NEED.  LICENSEE ASSUMES
THE ENTIRE RISK OF SELECTION, INSTALLATION, AND USE OF THE SOFTWARE.
THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS
AGREEMENT.  NO USE OF THE SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT
UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

16. Local Law.  If implied warranties may not be disclaimed under
applicable law, then ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARE LIMITED IN DURATION TO
THE PERIOD REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW.

17. Limitation of Liability.  INDEPENDENT OF THE FORGOING PROVISIONS,
IN NO EVENT AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION,
TORT, CONTRACT, OR STRICT PRODUCTS LIABILITY, SHALL EITHER PARTY BE
LIABLE TO THE OTHER OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER
MALFUNCTION, OR ANY OTHER KIND OF COMMERCIAL DAMAGE, EVEN IF THE PARTY
HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  THIS LIMITATION
SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY TO THE
EXTENT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  IN NO EVENT SHALL CODESOURCERY'S
LIABILITY FOR ACTUAL DAMAGES FOR ANY CAUSE WHATSOEVER, AND REGARDLESS
OF THE FORM OF ACTION, EXCEED THE AMOUNT PAID BY LICENSE UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT DURING THE APPLICABLE SUBSCRIPTION TERM.

18. Non-Exclusive Licenses.  The licenses granted herein are
non-exclusive.  CodeSourcery may compete with Licensee, and
CodeSourcery may grant licenses to third parties who may compete with
Licensee.

19. Reservation of Rights.  All rights not expressly granted to
Licensee herein are expressly reserved by CodeSourcery.

20. Export Controls.  Licensee agrees to comply with all export laws
and restrictions and regulations of the United States or foreign
agencies or authorities, and not to export or re-export the Software
or any direct product thereof in violation of any such restrictions,
laws or regulations, or without all necessary approvals.  As
applicable, each party shall obtain and bear all expenses relating to
any necessary licenses and/or exemptions with respect to its own
export of the Software from the U.S.  Neither the Software nor the
underlying information or technology may be electronically transmitted
or otherwise exported or re-exported (i) into Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya,
North Korea, Sudan, Syria or any other country subject to U.S. trade
sanctions covering the Software, to individuals or entities controlled
by such countries, or to nationals or residents of such countries
other than nationals who are lawfully admitted permanent residents of
countries not subject to such sanctions; or (ii) to anyone on the
U.S. Treasury Department's list of Specially Designated Nationals and
Blocked Persons or the U.S. Commerce Department's Table of Denial
Orders.  Licensee is responsible for complying with any local laws in
Licensee's jurisdiction which might impact Licensee's right to import,
export or use the Software, and Licensee represents that Licensee has
complied with any regulations or registration procedures required by
applicable law to make this license enforceable.

21. Severability.  If any provision of this Agreement is declared
invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed modified to
the extent necessary and possible to render it valid and enforceable.
In any event, the unenforceability or invalidity of any provision
shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement, and this
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, and be construed
and enforced, as if such provision had not been included, or had been
modified as above provided, as the case may be.

22. Arbitration.  Except for actions to protect intellectual property
rights and to enforce an arbitrator's decision hereunder, all
disputes, controversies, or claims arising out of or relating to this
Agreement or a breach thereof shall be submitted to and finally
resolved by arbitration under the rules of the American Arbitration
Association ("AAA") then in effect. There shall be one arbitrator, and
such arbitrator shall be chosen by mutual agreement of the parties in
accordance with AAA rules. The arbitration shall take place in Granite
Bay, California, and may be conducted by telephone or online. The
arbitrator shall apply the laws of the State of California, USA to all
issues in dispute. The controversy or claim shall be arbitrated on an
individual basis, and shall not be consolidated in any arbitration
with any claim or controversy of any other party. The findings of the
arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties, and may be
entered in any court of competent jurisdiction for
enforcement. Enforcements of any award or judgment shall be governed
by the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of
Foreign Arbitral Awards. Should either party file an action contrary
to this provision, the other party may recover attorney's fees and
costs up to $1000.00.

23. U.S. Government End-Users. The Software is a "commercial item," as
that term is defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of
"commercial computer software" and "commercial computer software
documentation," as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R.  12.212
(Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48
C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government
End Users acquire the Software with only those rights set forth
herein.

24. Jurisdiction And Venue.  The courts of Placer County in the State
of California, USA and the nearest U.S. District Court shall be the
exclusive jurisdiction and venue for all legal proceedings relating to
this Agreement.

25. Independent Contractors.  The relationship of the parties is that
of independent contractor, and nothing herein shall be construed to
create a partnership, joint venture, franchise, employment, or agency
relationship between the parties.  Licensee shall have no authority to
enter into agreements of any kind on behalf of CodeSourcery and shall
not have the power or authority to bind or obligate CodeSourcery in
any manner to any third party.

26. Force Majeure.  Neither CodeSourcery nor Licensee shall be liable
for damages for any delay or failure of delivery arising out of causes
beyond their reasonable control and without their fault or negligence,
including, but not limited to, Acts of God, acts of civil or military
authority, fires, riots, wars, embargoes, or communications failures.

27. Miscellaneous.  This Agreement constitutes the entire
understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter of
this Agreement and merges all prior communications, representations,
and agreements. This Agreement may be modified only by a written
agreement signed by the parties.  If any provision of this Agreement
is held to be unenforceable for any reason, such provision shall be
reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.  This
Agreement shall be construed under the laws of the State of
California, USA, excluding rules regarding conflicts of law.  The
application the United Nations Convention of Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.  This license is
written in English, and English is its controlling language.


		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
		       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
    parties under the terms of this License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
    customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
    received the program in object code or executable form with such
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   --- GPL

	    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA


Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year  name of author
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

CodeSourcery sells a commercial Sourcery VSIPL++ license for customers
who are unable to release their application under the GPL.  For more
information visit the CodeSourcery website: http://www.codesourcery.com/ 
